when you make as many videos as we do
you need a lot of fast reliable storage
and our main editing server wanic has
checked all of those boxes for years
it's a great little server it's built
out of high quality components and it
even looks cool but as our team is grown
we've reached the point where even a
minute one single minute of downtime
costs over $50 and that's just in
payroll now practically speaking the way
to mitigate that is by adding redundant
now our drives are already redundant
we've got 20 drives in there with data
striping but the problem is they all sit
in one single server I'm sure you can
see where this is going it's been over a
year in the making but it's finally here
wck final form and I'm calling it wanic
10 because it's the last wever avability
W told you this like 10 times nobody
even knows what high availability means
it means it's lus just go ahead unplug
one do it go for it well okay I should
probably tell you the stakes before you
do that each of these two grand twin
boxes has four entire servers inside of
them that were provided by super micro
who sponsored this whole thing and
they're set up with WCA a redundant nvme
first file system in this config it
should sustain two entire servers
dropping out without anyone even
noticing except that we moved the entire
team onto it last night without telling
anyone and it's the middle of the work
day with a ton of high priority videos
in progress do you really want to test
it right now I like I haven't tried that
all right here we go okay what could go
wrong I mean a
[Applause]
lot naturally a huge part of a project
like this is the software the stuff
that's going to handle Distributing all
of ourish terabytes of video projects
Word documents and Linux isos to the
multiple machines that we just showed
you but we can't install any software
until we have some Hardware so why don't
we start there meet the super micro
Grand twin A+ server as- 2115 gt-
hntr despite its sort of ordinary
looking appearance and unexciting
sounding name it
is anything but ordinary and it is very
exciting because inside this 2u is four
independent Compu computers but for what
we're doing four nodes please we want
eight inside each of these is a
completely independent motherboard 384
gigs of memory an AMD epic Genoa
processor with 64 cores dual m.2 slots
for redundant boot drives six pcie Gen 5
2 and 1/2 in nvme slots up front and
we've got IO in the rear now this bit
here could be a little confusing at
first glance but that is because not
only do we have USB but we have two full
gen 5x6 pcie connections back here along
with display output and power for the
entire server this whole thing slides
into the chassis which holds a really
cool modular backplane assembly that
we'll take a look at in a minute and
then passes through thank you Jake ah to
the back at the server where you've got
a Management Port a single USB port for
each server nope it's two and they're
shared what the I was about to ask cuz
we've also got a single VGA you see the
button for two servers there no way this
button toggles
yeah and okay before we talk about that
a little bit more look at these power
supplies each of these is
2200 Watts 80 plus typ tianium which
sounds like a lot but when you're
potentially handling four 400 wat epic
Genoa CPUs along with a bunch of ram up
to 24 nvme drives and eight network
cards well it seems downright reasonable
doesn't it is it 24 drives can't be 6
yes 6 * 4 is
24 and of course that's just one of them
we've got two of those and that means
that in the event that one of these dies
the system should be able to continue to
operate uninterrupted which is a big
part of the high availability goal that
we have for this deployment speaking of
high availability let's move on to our
network cards each of those pcie gen 5x6
slots I showed you guys before
terminates in one of these ocp 3.0 small
form factor mezzanine slots and what
we're putting in them is these connectx
6 200 gbit cards from
melanox excuse me from Nvidia that okay
these are the older Gen 4 ones so
they're going to be limited by the slot
speed of around 250 gabit per second but
if we had newer cards that means that
each of these nodes could do 200 plus
another 200 400 up to
800 gigabit which would of course be a
complete waste for us a because our
workload can't take advantage of it and
B because our switch is only 100 gbit
sorry of course the two ports are still
helpful we do have redundant
switches except there's kind of a
problem here that's still a single point
of failure in a perfect world we would
have two single port Nicks so if a Nick
were to die it would still be okay but
because we have so many nodes we're not
really worried about an individual node
you know they could have one boot drive
and it die or one Nick and it die we
still have an extra backup how many
nines do you want I mean I don't know
like one would would be good 9% which
Jokes Aside is a really good point if we
were architecting this properly there
are so many more considerations that we
would need to make like the power coming
into the rack would have to come from
two independent backed up sources the
connectivity to our clients would have
to be redundant as well the connectivity
between all of the systems would have to
be architected in such a way that no
matter what fails everything will stay
up and realistically for us we're not
going to get that deep into it because
our goal is better than we had before
which was a single machine with its own
built-in redundancies but other than
that nothing now at least we should be
able to lose a full machine out of these
eight we can restart one of our core
switches totally fine two machines out
of these eight and we can still be
limping along I mean limping is a bit of
a stretch it's going to be very fast now
normally if you buy a super micro
machine they're going to pre-build it
for you they're going to validate it for
you you can even have them pre-build an
entire Rack or racks of these things and
then validate your application on it
before it ships to you in fact we've got
a whole video that we did about that
that was sponsored by super micro a
little while back of course this is LT
my friends so we will be assembling this
one ourselves do you like that spin of
the screwdriver above the server don't
worry I won't miss I'll never miss see I
could do this a hundred times and I
would never miss why no it's fine it's
good it's okay we have seven more any
who for our CPU we've gone with an epic
Genova
9534 this is a 64 core
128 thread monster of a CPU it'll do 3.7
GHz Max boost it has A4 gigabyte of
level three cache a 300 wat TDP it
supports ddr5 memory up to 12 channels
and it supports a whopping 128 Lanes of
pcie Gen 5 originally we were intending
to go with 32 core chips but they were
out of stock so free upgrade lucky us
compared to previous generation AMD epic
CPUs dooa is a big step up in terms of
IO performance which makes it perfect
for this application and in the long
term I mean if we've got all the extra
CPU cores and a whole bunch of ram
anyway why run WCA on the bare metal
when we could install prox Mox and then
use the other cores for I don't know
High
availability Plex server yeah Linux isos
more realistically it would be something
like active directory yeah which we
don't really want to do right now
because if you run active directory on
one server and it goes down you're going
to have a really really bad time but if
you run it on a bunch of servers yeah
it's good great so normally server CPU
coolers would come with their own
thermal paste pre-applied but since
we're doing this ourselves and uh if you
look carefully it's not the first time
that it's been installed we are going to
be using okay thank you for that a piece
of Honeywell PTM 7950 this stuff is
freaking awesome it has great thermal
transfer properties and it can handle
varying temperatures like seriously I
don't remember many not even just
varying but like a lot of huge cycles
for a very very long time now available
LTD store.com is that big enough does
that cover all of the ccds and
cxs oh there's a second piece of PL am I
stupid is there a second piece of
plastic no there isn't should I put one
in the fridge no no no it's totally fine
I've done this like a bunch of times
yeah oh she's Min look at that see all
right easy I would recommend putting it
in the fridge before you use it all
right to ensure we're making the
absolute most of our CPU especially in
this High throughput storage workload
we're going to be populating all 12 of
our memory Channels with 32 gig dims of
ddr5 ECC running at 4,800 megga
transitors per second that's a total
of 384 three terabytes of memory what
across all eight
oh each of the cables Jake removing
right now is a pcie by8 cable that feeds
two of the drive bays in the front but
the reason he's taking them out is that
we can install our boot drives these are
consumer grade each system is getting
two Sab 512 gig gen 3 rocket drives and
it's not because they're particularly
special in any meaningful way they're
not even that fast by modern standards
but what they are is from our experience
reliable enough and they are fast enough
for what we're going to be doing which
is just booting our operating system off
of them movie Magic all of the other
nodes are already built so what do you
mean movie Magic super micro built them
Oh I thought you buil them super micro
builds them for you I took it apart okay
fine I took that one apart no secrets
left anymore yep no Intrigue no mystery
you know what is still mysterious is
inside of here I've actually never
opened this before Oh okay let's have a
look woo holy oh that's power supplies
yeah this is so cool so the whole
computer is cooled by four fans no way
there's the two power supply fans and
then these fans in their what do they
call this like IO module I think is what
they call it look at the blades on this
thing counter rotating you're serious
that's what you're looking at not this
the most delicate of spaghet oh my God
there's not even connectors every one of
these wires is soldered directly to the
back of the ocp 3.0 what yeah for
storage we're installing ing two of
kokia Speedy cd6 Gen 4 and vme drives in
each node so we've got one that is 7
tabt and another one that is 15
terabytes they're kind of placeholders
for now and in the long term we're going
to switch to Something in the
neighborhood of about 4 15 tab drives
per node but the drives we want to use
are currently occupied by oh that
project by a top secret pastry related
project so that's going to have to wait
the good news is that when those drives
become available WCA supports live
upgrading and downgrading so we can just
pull these drives swap in the new ones
pull swap pull swap pull swap as long as
we uh don't do it all at once are we
ready to fire these things up okay
there's a lot going on here what is that
is that a switch y hey look you can see
the button now oh that's
cool what you're hearing so far is just
the Nvidia SN 3700 32 Port 200 gig
switch oh my God it even says melanox on
the front I know maybe it's an old like
review sample demo univ we got it with
the $1 million PC and I'm pretty sure
that that was already in video at that
point can you hear that you hear it
getting louder yeah
who well that one's just excited to see
this is the WKA dashboard maybe if I go
over here cluster servers we can see all
of our servers we have two drives per
and then course this is a very
interesting part of how wo works it's
not like trass let's say where it just
uses the whole CPU for whatever you're
trying to do they dedicate and like
fence off specific cores for specific
tasks for instance each Drive gets a
core so we've got two Drive containers
that means two a full core per Drive
yeah damn yeah you also have compute
cores which do like the par calculation
and intercluster communication and then
there's front end which you don't
necessarily always have frontend cores
managed connecting to a file system so
if you just had drives and Compu compute
you wouldn't be able to access the files
on this machine so you would have your
backend servers right those would run
drives and compute which is the cluster
and then on your like GPU box you would
run just the front end and that would
allow the GPU box to connect to the
backend cluster servers oh the back-end
cluster servers don't need to run a
front end unless you want to be able to
access the files on that machine or from
that machine which we want to cuz we're
using SMB we're using it as a a file
server stupid NZ for our stupid windows
machines yeah you can also have a
dedicated front end machine yes so if
you had like a 100 backend servers but
then that's adding a single point of
failure which is what we're trying to
avoid you could have multiple of them
okay you thought they thought of that
yeah I set it up so every single machine
in the cluster all eight of them are
part of our SMB cluster which means it
cannot go down realistically there are a
ton of other file systems out there that
you could use for something like this
traz has their scale out setup for
clustered ZFS which only requires three
nodes and is something we'd be quite
interested in trying out or if you're
looking for object storage there's a
million options but the main open-
source one Min iio requires only four
nodes though when we saw how nuts WCA
was when we set up the million dooll
server cluster I mean we had to try it
out for ourselves and try it out we did
so this is each not node holy
sh look okay the crazy thing is look at
the read latency now guys look look hold
on hold on hold on at 70 gabt a second
we've seen numbers like this before but
we're talking with in some cases double
the number of drives and no file system
without a file system like raw to each
drive this is with a file system with a
file system over a network and we're
only using 100 Gig ports like usually
with a WCA setup like this you'd
probably use 200 yeah cuz we oh my God
we didn't know cuz we didn't even have
networking as a factor last time all the
drives were in one box I know this is
networking too and the crazy part is
we're not using RDMA this is like um
some fancy uh what's it called dpdk I
think is the library this is wild yeah
look at that so read latency 131 microc
seconds that's 4 million read iops with
a latency of 1 millisecond average are
are we able to keep using W FS like this
is a trial okay this software is quite
expensive this is unreal 4 million iops
this is like it is unreal it's way more
than we could possibly ever need but
it's cool it's so cool don't they
support tearing and everything oh yeah
here I'll show you actually what that
looks like this is on mother vault which
I think right now has 400 Tippy bytes
left so let's say Max Capacity is 400
terabytes now once we run out of the 100
terab of SSD capacity which you can see
here it'll just it'll tear I mean it
automatically tear anyways and you do
need to make sure that your object store
is at least the same size as the flash
or bigger because they're going to
automatically tear everything to it that
makes sense so in theory we
move manually copy everything from Vault
one time to wo one time because it
stores in like 64 megabyte chunks and
then it just stays there forever stays
there forever and then we just have one
network share and when something needs
to get vaed you just you just move it
from allow it to Decay yeah you would
probably move it from pending projects
to like done or something like that we
make a folder for done yeah sure um and
then it will just do it automatically
wow or if it's a video that like
somebody was working on and then you
know it's been on hold for 3 months and
we shot you know a ter of footage it
will just and then when we're ready to
work on it it'll promote it back up holy
we K net boot off of this
followup video yeah I mean why not it's
so fast you literally could not we we
couldn't saturate this now a lot of you
at this point must be thinking gosh
Mister that's an awful lot of computers
for high availability couldn't you do
this with two and you're not that far
off the old school high availability net
app storage appliances like that one we
looked at recently did have just two
machines but those were both connected
to the same storage drives if each
system has its own drives when things
can get out of sync like let's say if
one machine has downtime you can run
into a situation where each system
believes with all the conviction in its
heart that it has the correct data and
then if all you have is two how will
they decide who's right this is
typically referred to as split brain and
that's why the majority of High
availability systems have at bare
minimum three servers this allows the
third system to be a tie breaker of
sorts in the case of a disagreement now
in our case WCA that stupid Ultra fast
file system that we're using which
unlike anything that we've used before
has been built specifically for nvme
drives not hard drives well it requires
a minimum of six nodes with a
recommendation of eight but running WKA
can still be an advantage video editing
with Adobe Premiere like we use is very
latency sensitive and even a small delay
when going to access a clip can be
enough to make the software crash so any
Improvement there is huge not to mention
that a pair of these Grand twins speced
out to the max with 128 car epic Berg
CPUs would get you just four rack units
with 1,000 CPU cores actually actually a
little more 24 terab of ddr5 and up to 3
pedabytes of ndme storage I mean h that
makes our setup seem downright
reasonable now the average W customers
are going to be a little more demanding
than us visual effect Studios AI
developers genomics Labs all the folks
out there that need Stupid Fast low
latency storage and WCA showed us
screenshots of clusters that were
reading in excess of 1 terabyte per
second consistently obviously that was a
bigger cluster but it shows you what can
be achieved with this kind of Hardware
running on I mean what used to be the
crappier option software raid man I feel
bad even calling it that these days I
had a interesting idea with the super
micro folks so you know how we have like
two pedabytes of 13 years worth of
footage thousands and thousands of hours
of footage thousands it's really cool
that we have it but it's really hard to
use unless you just happen to know what
video the thing you were looking for is
in well what if you could just like
search for something lonus Sebastian I
want every clip with lus Sebastian it
wow bam look at that shot up and let's
say you know there's this one that's uh
detected that it's you throughout the
entire clip yeah you're in a chair so
you could search for clips of lonus
sitting down with a keyboard yeah like
we're going to be able to actually find
stuff yeah right now there is a a finite
amount of objects that are trained I
mean chihuahua let me scroll through
this it's a lot eventually you'll be
able to train it and tell it hey this is
what a computer fan looks like or this
is what an SSD looks like oh my God that
is so cool so wait is this running on
these extra CPU cores or okay no not
right now faces and logos are running on
CPU yeah objects OCR and scenes run on
GPU got it but they're not running on
any of those machines they're running on
a GPU workstation that super micro sent
that's sitting at my desk um it was
Heavy anyways what is happening on that
new server is proxies because if we were
to analyze the original Clips oh AAL
formatting is a huge problem when you go
into an AI model it might not
necessarily support the Kodak that
you're filming in sure but also Clips
are like hundreds of megabytes a second
potentially that would take forever so
instead it generates proxies of
everything first first which we're
dumping to that new server and then we
can take advantage of the Lightning Fast
storage yeah you can we have 2.6 massive
compute and we can basically create like
a proxy map of what everything is in the
main archive right that is so cool so
far I've generated 2.6 terab of proxies
which might not sound like a lot but
they're only 5 megabit so it's actually
like a lot this is going to be a
flipping game Cher News
sports can you imagine your CNN you want
that person wearing a red tie yeah but
right now we've done 25,000 so 2.6 terab
is 25,000 Pro okay well let's try and
find something oh hold on once you've
generated a proxy you have to then
analyze it right ah so the analysis is
not done no not even close I've analyzed
22 Clips okay everything with Elijah
Elijah and this is the every clip that
Elijah's in and you can even see this is
so cool this is the actual ma'am as they
call it media asset manager the axle AI
guys built this before it was like AI as
far as I'm aware back when you would
have had to make comments like this
manually now it's just AI so all of the
data is in here now and we can see
here's Adam and Elijah oh that's so cool
here's all the different objects chair
flower pot microphone oh let me show you
the scene understanding thing cuz that
is so cool this is like brand new thing
they barely even worked it in but it
basic it basically takes a snapshot
every seconds two men are working on a
project in a room there is a speaker
stereo equipment there's a faucet
there's a tripod there's the tripod some
of these are a little less accurate two
men are working on a robot in a room it
kind of looks like a robot you I mean
yeah sure two men are in a workshop
looking at a laptop computer looking at
a machine there is person Alex Clark so
this is just running right now in real
time like more stuff is getting
processed as see here processing logos 9
there it is processing logos and faces
it's going to take a while yeah it's
going to take forever they're still
working on making it function on
multiple gpus so once we can get it
running on like four gpus say one GPU is
doing face detection one's doing scene
analysis one's doing object detection or
something like that we'll be able to go
a lot faster but right now it's just one
GPU got it but this is so cool all
that's left is to deploy it lonus had to
run away to do some other stuff so I've
hired some backup Cavalry Sean our
infrastructure administrator except
we've run into a bit of a problem lonus
and me and our Infinite Wisdom while we
were making this rack so much better ran
a bunch of cables right where we need to
put the server did we just start
unplugging no yeah how are we even going
to do this we have to like part the seas
exactly I started to try to move some of
the cables out of the way but they're
all twisted together so hopefully the
LTT Cable Management thing which you can
finally get at ltp store.com will save
us beautiful cable managed we can slide
a server in there now I hope you're in
yeah it's on ow ow ow ow ow ow ow okay
you're good just go that wasn't so bad
like made for it
next hey we're in now we just have to
run a million cables uhoh do you notice
anything different well it's loud most
of that's actually just the vent is on
one of the the air conditioners is
broken again but do you notice anything
different I mean the sticker's here that
that sticker's been there for years
seriously you haven't noticed anything
else well you guys uh screwed something
onto the oh did you put sauna Pan behind
it yeah but I thought this is supposed
to be a vented door my original plan was
to get rid of the vent that you put in
but that vent was there as a backup in
case the HVAC ever failed so that fan is
the exhaust and that's the intake you
see all the gaps F God there gaps but do
you notice the sound difference yeah
it's a big difference it's huge but that
server is so loud we basically ended up
where we
started yeah but that's okay I was just
trying to normalize I just mean I didn't
make it worse it's not that okay look at
that woo cute right God that's a lot of
metal if all goes to plan we could get
rid of this and this and just have these
so no more additional rack taken up
which is nice
[Music]
wow it should sustain two entire servers
dropping out without anyone even
noticing do you really want to test it
right now I like I haven't tried that
all right here we go what could go
wrong u i mean a lot the fact that all
the fans just like turned down a bit is
a little scary let's go see if anyone
noticed oh hi Mark hi I'm holding your
file server how's your edit going uh
what huh is it working it's working is
this on Wi-Fi hey Emily hey how's your
edit going I'm holding your server
that's cool
is it working are you sure yeah Hoffman
what's up how's your edit going this is
your server right here it's amazing look
feel it it's still warm wow yeah it's
it's still warm how well how's it
working it's great you know I'm editing
the video that we're shooting you are
yeah uh we're going to pull another one
wait no l you forgot one yeah here
here's another here's another one of
your servers is it working it's great
though huhuh for reference you're not
supposed to do this you should power off
the system first but we're just trying
to simulate it failing yeah a terrible
catastrophic failure I can't believe how
smoothly it handled that see all the
lights they never stopped blinking big
thanks to Super Micro for these awesome
servers thanks to WCA for making this
crazy software thanks to axle for the
awesome AI detection if you like this
video maybe check out the video series
of us building our nearly three
pedabytes of archival storage which we
call the mother Vault that thing is
awesome and we showed it to you and it's
faster now oh and thanks to you for
being an awesome viewer